## SYMBOL TABLE GENERATOR

### Introduction
This project is to read one or more assembly code program as input assuming the instruction are valid.
Find all the symbols like constants, defined variables, functions, labels and literals and make a table of them.
This is done during the 1st pass of 2-Pass Assembler.
Repeat the above steps for each file which is passes as an argument.
Combine all the sections and group them in symbol table with continuity in symbol address.
Finally, a symbol table which contains all the symbols from each file which is passed as argument will be tabulated.
So, this project does all the work done by a standard assembler during its first pass.

### Prerequisites

Before you continue, ensure you have met the following requirements.

- You have installed the latest version of Python.
- You are using a Linux Machine.
- You need to install "tabulate" module using the command "pip install tabulate".
- You have a basic understanding of Python Programming.
- You should know what is symbol table and literal table in Assembler.
- You have a good grab on Assembly level Instructions to understand the code.
- You have atleast a little knowledge on rules for conversion from Assembly code to Object code.


### Files and Description

- Assignment-2_Ques-1
  - Input_File_Screenshots
    - input_file1.png = Screenshot of input Assembly Code of prog1.asm.
    - input_file2.png = Screenshot of input Assembly code of prog2.asm.
    - input file3.png = Screenshot of input Assembly code of prog3.asm.
  - combined_symbol_table.py = The python code which will generate "output.txt" file as output.
  - output.txt = Output file generated by "combined_symbol_table.py".
  - output_file.png = Screenshot of combined Symbol Table.
  - prog1.asm = 1st Input file containing Assembly Instruction.
  - prog2.asm = 2nd Input file containing Assembly Instruction.
  - prog3.asm = 3rd Input file containing Assembly Instruction.
  - readme.md = The file which you are currently reading.



### Installation / Usage

- Save the entire Directory in any Directory.
- Write few Assembly level instructions in file named "prog.asm".
(Note : There are already few Instructions written in the file, you can modify them or add few.)
- Install tabulate module using the command "pip install tabulate".
- Run the python file named "combined_symbol_table.py" with the following command:
  - python combined_symbol_table.py



### Execution

- On execution of Python file named "trans.py", a new file named "output.txt" will be created.
- This new file will contain the symbol table for assembly code file named "prog.asm".
- The symbol table contains 7 attributes:
  - New Name
  - Name
  - Address
  - Section
  - Type
  - Value
  - Size
  - Defined/Undefined (U for undefined Symbol and D for defined symbol)



### Developer

- Aman Kumar, BCA,
  - Student at Department of Computer Science
  - Savitribai Phule Pune University
  - MailID -> aman487jain@gmail.com
  - Phone No - 6385644990
