## SYMBOL TABLE and LITERAL TABLE Constructor

### Introduction
This project is to read an assembly code program as input assuming the instruction are valid.
Find all the symbols like constants, defined variables, functions, labels and literals and make a table of them.
This is done during the 1st pass of 2-Pass Assembler.
So, this project does all the work done by a standard assembler during its first pass.

### Prerequisites

Before you continue, ensure you have met the following requirements.

- You have installed the latest version of Python.
- You are using a Linux Machine.
- You have a basic understanding of Python Programming.
- You should know what is symbol table and literal table in Assembler.
- You have a good grab on Assembly level Instructions to understand the code.
- You have atleast a little knowledge on rules for conversion from Assembly code to Object code.


### Files and Description

- Assignment-2_Ques-1
  - input_file.png = Screenshot of input Assembly Code.
  - output_file.png = Screenshot of Symbol Table and Literal Table.
  - output.txt = Output file generated by "trans.py".
  - p.lst = lst file generated by NASM.
  - prog.asm = Input file containing Assembly Instruction
  - readme.md = The file which you are currently reading.
  - trans.py = The python code which will take "prog.asm" file as input and generate "output.txt" file as output.



### Installation / Usage

- Save the entire Directory in any Directory.
- Write few Assembly level instructions in file named "prog.asm".
(Note : There are already few Instructions written in the file, you can modify them or add few.)
- Install tabulate module using the command "pip install tabulate".
- Run the python file named "trans.py" with the following command:
  - python trans.py



### Execution

- On execution of Python file named "trans.py", a new file named "output.txt" will be created.
- This new file will contain the symbol table and literal table for assembly code file named "prog.asm".
- The symbol table contains 7 attributes:
  - Symbol Name
  - Symbol Address
  - Symbol Section
  - Symbol Type
  - Symbol Value
  - Symbol Size
  - Symbol Defined/Undefined (U for undefined Symbol and D for defined symbol)
- The literal table contains 4 attributes:
  - Literal Name
  - Literal Section
  - Literal Type
  - Literal Value 


### Developer

- Aman Kumar, BCA,
  - Student at Department of Computer Science
  - Savitribai Phule Pune University
  - MailID -> aman487jain@gmail.com
  - Phone No - 6385644990
